
Detroit Wheels
instance
The Detroit Wheels were an American football team, a charter member of the ill-fated World Football League. The Wheels were founded December 13, 1973 by ten investors, whose number eventually grew to 33, including singer Marvin Gaye, Motown Records vice-president Esther Edwards, Little Caesars founder (and future Red Wings and Tigers owner) Mike Ilitch, and Edward Nishon owner of Milford Fabricating. Detroit attorney and philanthropist Louis Lee was named team president. Sonny Grandelius, a former star running back at Michigan State, was named general manager. However, even by WFL standards, the Wheels were severely undercapitalized. The owners didn't appear to make an initial capital investment; instead, team expenses were seemingly paid out-of-pocket as they arose. They initially refused to spend more than $10,000 per player. As a result, while they picked future stars as Ed \"Too Tall\" Jones, Rick Middleton and Randy Grossman, most of their draft picks were unwilling to play under such conditions. The Wheels signed only three of their 33 draft picks, forcing them to hold open tryouts. None of the men who tried out made the team. Then they had trouble finding a place to play. Their first choice was Tiger Stadium, home of the NFL's Detroit Lions and Major League Baseball's Detroit Tigers. However, they were unable to get a lease due to pressure from the Lions (and would have had trouble securing dates anyway, due to the WFL season going head-to-head with MLB). The Silverdome hadn't been built yet, and the University of Michigan, home of cavernous Michigan Stadium, also said no (despite Lee being a Michigan alumnus). Finally, the Wheels signed a deal to play at Eastern Michigan University's Rynearson Stadium in Ypsilanti, Michigan, 37 miles from downtown Detroit; Rynearson had no lighting at the time, and the Wheels had to install their own (the lights remain on the stadium to this day). The club even hired EMU's head coach, Dan Boisture, to helm the Wheels.