
Royal_Thai_Armed_Forces
class
The Royal Thai Armed Forces (Thai: กองทัพไทย; rtgs: Kong Thap Thai) is the name of the military of the Kingdom of Thailand. It consists of the following branches: Created in 1852, the Royal Thai Armed Forces came into existence as permanent force at the behest of King Mongkut, who needed a European trained military force to thwart any Western threat and any attempts at colonialisation. By 1887, during the next reign of King Chulalongkorn, a permanent military command in the Kalahom Department was established. However the office of Kalahom and the military of Siam had existed since the days of the Sukhothai Kingdom in the 13th century. In fact the history of the Kings of Siam is teeming with tales of military conquest and power. However, since 1932, when the military, with the help of civilians, overthrew the system of absolute monarchy and instead created a constitutional system, the military has dominated and been in control of Thai politics, providing it with many prime ministers and carrying out many coups d'état, the most recent being in 2014. As of 2013, the Royal Thai Armed Forces had 306,000 active duty personnel. The Thai military has more than 1,750 flag officers (generals and admirals), a bloated number for a military of its size. By comparison, the US military as of April 2011 had 964 flag officers for a force several times the size of Thailand's. On 2 May 2015 1,043 new flag officers of all three services promoted in 2014-2015 took the oath of allegiance. It is not clear how many retired during the same period. The Head of the Thai Armed Forces (จอมทัพไทย; rtgs: Chom Thap Thai) is King Bhumibol Adulyadej (Rama IX), however this position is only nominal. The armed forces are ostensibly managed by the Ministry of Defense of Thailand, which is headed by the minister of defence (a member of the Cabinet of Thailand) and commanded by the Royal Thai Armed Forces Headquarters, which in turn is headed by the Chief of Defence Forces of Thailand. The defence budget has nearly tripled from 78.1 billion baht in 2005 to 207 billion baht allocated for fiscal year 2016, beginning in October 2015, amounting to roughly 1.5 percent of GDP. According to the Constitution of the Kingdom, serving in the armed forces is a duty of all Thai citizens. However, only males over the age of 21 who have not gone through reserve training are subjected to a random draft. Those chosen randomly are subjected to twenty-four months full-time service, while volunteers are subjected to eighteen months service, depending on their education. The Royal Thai Armed Forces Day is celebrated on 18 January to commemorate the victory of King Naresuan the Great in battle against the Crown Prince of Burma in 1593.
