
Mystery Science Theater 3000
instance
Mystery Science Theater 3000, abbreviated MST3K, is an American television comedy series created by Joel Hodgson and produced by Best Brains, Inc. The show premiered on KTMA in Minneapolis, Minnesota on November 24, 1988. It later aired on The Comedy Channel/Comedy Central for another six seasons until its cancellation in 1997. Through a fan-driven write-in campaign, the show was picked up by The Sci-Fi Channel and aired for another three seasons until its final cancellation in August 1999. The series ran for eleven years, with 197 episodes, and one feature film. The show also spun off The Mystery Science Theater Hour, a sixty-episode syndication package created by dividing selected episodes into halves. The show initially starred Hodgson as Joel Robinson, a janitor trapped against his will by two mad scientists on the Satellite of Love and forced to watch a series of B-movies as a part of the scientists' plot to take over the world. To keep his sanity, Joel crafts a number of robot companions — including Tom Servo, Crow T. Robot, and Gypsy — to keep him company and help him humorously comment on each movie as it plays, a process known as riffing. Each two-hour episode would feature a single movie in its entirety — with Joel, Tom, and Crow watching in silhouette from a row of theater seats at the bottom of the screen — and also included interstitial sketches. The show's cast changed over its duration; most notably, Joel was replaced by Mike Nelson (played by Michael J. Nelson) in the show's fifth season. Other cast members, most of whom were also writers for the show, include Trace Beaulieu, Josh Weinstein, Jim Mallon, Kevin Murphy, Frank Conniff, Mary Jo Pehl, Bill Corbett, Paul Chaplin, and Bridget Jones Nelson. MST3K was listed as one of Time magazine's \"100 Best TV Shows of All\" in 2007. The show won a Peabody Award in 1993, was also nominated for two Emmy Awards in the category of Outstanding Individual Achievement in Writing for a Variety or Music Program in 1994 and 1995, and was nominated from 1992 to 1997 for a CableACE Award. The show was considered highly influential, and partially contributing towards the practice of social television, while also bringing to light movies that had not received public attention and subsequently identified as some of the worst movies ever made, most notably Manos: The Hands of Fate. A large fanbase for the show grew during the onset of Internet growth in the 1990s, with fans calling themselves \"MSTies\". Following the show's cancellation, various crew members launched separate projects in the same theme as MST3K, including RiffTrax (which continues to be ongoing) and Cinematic Titanic. A plan to revive the series was launched in 2015 by Hodgson and Shout! Factory, who has helped to secure licensing rights for the MST3K brand and for past MST3K episodes for home media and online streaming. The revival, based on crowd-sourced Kickstarter funding, is expected to include fourteen new episodes, featuring Jonah Ray as the new human test subject aboard the Satellite of Love, with Felicia Day and Patton Oswalt as the new Mads.
