
Pervez_Musharraf
instance
Pervez Musharraf (Urdu: پرویز مشرف; born 11 August 1943), is a Pakistani politician and a retired four-star army general who tenured as the tenth President of Pakistan from 2001 until tendering resignation, to avoid impeachment, in 2008. Prior to seizing control of the government through a military coup d'état in 1999, Musharraf served as the Chairman joint chiefs and Chief of army staff— the appointments he secured in 1998. Although, Musharraf relinquished the position of Chairman joint chiefs in 2001, he eventually retired from military service after retiring from the army in 2007. Commissioned in the Pakistan Army in 1964, he played an active role in the Afghan civil war. Musharraf rose to national prominence when he was elevated to the four-star appointments by then-Prime Minister Nawaz Sharif in October 1998. He was the mastermind of a Kargil infiltration that brought India and Pakistan to a full-fledged war in 1999. After months of contentious relations with Prime Minister Sharif, a staged military coup d'état allowed Musharraf to seize control of the government. He subsequently placed Prime Minister Sharif under a strict house-arrest before moving towards a trial against Sharif in Adiala Prison. Advocating for the Third Way for varying synthesis of conservatism and left wing ideas, he appointed Shaukat Aziz in place of Sharif and directed polices against terrorism, becoming a key player in the American-led war on terror. As Shaukat Aziz departed as Prime Minister, and after approving the suspension of the Judicature branch in 2007, Musharraf's position was dramatically weakened in 2008. Tendering his resignation in a threat to face potential impeachment movement led by the ruling Pakistan Peoples Party in 2008, Musharraf moved to London in self-imposed exile after returning to Pakistan to participate in the general elections held in 2013. While absent from Pakistan, Musharraf engaged in legal battles after the country's high courts issued warrants for him and Aziz for their alleged involvement in the assassinations of Benazir Bhutto and Akbar Bugti. Upon his return, Musharraf was disqualified from taking part in the elections by High Court judges in April 2013. On 31 March 2014, Musharraf was booked and charged with high treason for implementing emergency rule and suspending the constitution in 2007. His legacy is mixed: his era saw the emergence of a more assertive middle class, but his disregard for civilian institutions weakened the state of Pakistan, according to BBC analysis in 2008.
